#CodeBook

This code book gives information about the "Data2.txt" dataset generated by "run_analysis.R" script. This data was transformed based on an original database.
The dataset includes the following files: "run_analysis.R" script (Github); "README.md" (Github); "Data2.txt" (submitted in Coursera).


This information was provided in the original data (this is a citation): "(...) database come from the accelerometer and gyroscope 3-axial raw signals tAcc-XYZ and tGyro-XYZ. These time domain signals (prefix 't' to denote time) were captured at a constant rate of 50 Hz. Then they were filtered using a median filter and a 3rd order low pass Butterworth filter with a corner frequency of 20 Hz to remove noise. Similarly, the acceleration signal was then separated into body and gravity acceleration signals (tBodyAcc-XYZ and tGravityAcc-XYZ) using another low pass Butterworth filter with a corner frequency of 0.3 Hz. 
Subsequently, the body linear acceleration and angular velocity were derived in time to obtain Jerk signals (tBodyAccJerk-XYZ and tBodyGyroJerk-XYZ). Also the magnitude of these three-dimensional signals were calculated using the Euclidean norm (tBodyAccMag, tGravityAccMag, tBodyAccJerkMag, tBodyGyroMag, tBodyGyroJerkMag). 
Finally a Fast Fourier Transform (FFT) was applied to some of these signals producing fBodyAcc-XYZ, fBodyAccJerk-XYZ, fBodyGyro-XYZ, fBodyAccJerkMag, fBodyGyroMag, fBodyGyroJerkMag. (Note the 'f' to indicate frequency domain signals). 
These signals were used to estimate variables of the feature vector for each pattern: '-XYZ' is used to denote 3-axial signals in the X, Y and Z directions." (extracted from the file "features_info.txt")

## Dimensions of dataset generated by the script:
The dataset has 180 observations of 88 variables.
The rows are the combination of each 30 subjects performing six (6) different classes of behavior (see "activities"). Therefore, 30 x 6 = 180 rows.
The columns are the variables. The first column presents the actitivies. The second column presents the number of identification of subjects.  The 3rd to 88th columns are averages of each measurement (described above) related to each subject and activities.

##variable name:
 [1] "activities": (6 levels) "laying", "sitting", "standing", "walking", "walking_downstairs", and "walking_upstairs";
 [2] "subjects": 30 subjects;                           
 [3] "tBodyAcc_mean_X": numeric, mean;                    
 [4] "tBodyAcc_mean_Y": numeric, mean;                    
 [5] "tBodyAcc_mean_Z": numeric, mean;                    
 [6] "tGravityAcc_mean_X": numeric, mean;  
 [7] "tGravityAcc_mean_Y": numeric, mean;   
 [8] "tGravityAcc_mean_Z": numeric, mean;   
 [9] "tBodyAccJerk_mean_X": numeric, mean;    
[10] "tBodyAccJerk_mean_Y": numeric, mean;     
[11] "tBodyAccJerk_mean_Z": numeric, mean;     
[12] "tBodyGyro_mean_X": numeric, mean;     
[13] "tBodyGyro_mean_Y": numeric, mean;    
[14] "tBodyGyro_mean_Z": numeric, mean;     
[15] "tBodyGyroJerk_mean_X": numeric, mean;    
[16] "tBodyGyroJerk_mean_Y": numeric, mean;    
[17] "tBodyGyroJerk_mean_Z": numeric, mean;     
[18] "tBodyAccMag_mean": numeric, mean;    
[19] "tGravityAccMag_mean": numeric, mean;     
[20] "tBodyAccJerkMag_mean" : numeric, mean;               
[21] "tBodyGyroMag_mean" : numeric, mean;                 
[22] "tBodyGyroJerkMag_mean" : numeric, mean;             
[23] "fBodyAcc_mean_X"  : numeric, mean;                  
[24] "fBodyAcc_mean_Y"  : numeric, mean;                  
[25] "fBodyAcc_mean_Z"  : numeric, mean;                  
[26] "fBodyAcc_meanFreq_X"  : numeric, mean;              
[27] "fBodyAcc_meanFreq_Y"  : numeric, mean;              
[28] "fBodyAcc_meanFreq_Z"   : numeric, mean;             
[29] "fBodyAccJerk_mean_X"  : numeric, mean;              
[30] "fBodyAccJerk_mean_Y"  : numeric, mean;              
[31] "fBodyAccJerk_mean_Z"   : numeric, mean;             
[32] "fBodyAccJerk_meanFreq_X" : numeric, mean;           
[33] "fBodyAccJerk_meanFreq_Y": numeric, mean;            
[34] "fBodyAccJerk_meanFreq_Z": numeric, mean;            
[35] "fBodyGyro_mean_X"    : numeric, mean;               
[36] "fBodyGyro_mean_Y"     : numeric, mean;              
[37] "fBodyGyro_mean_Z"   : numeric, mean;                
[38] "fBodyGyro_meanFreq_X"   : numeric, mean;            
[39] "fBodyGyro_meanFreq_Y"  : numeric, mean;             
[40] "fBodyGyro_meanFreq_Z"    : numeric, mean;           
[41] "fBodyAccMag_mean"   : numeric, mean;                
[42] "fBodyAccMag_meanFreq"    : numeric, mean;           
[43] "fBodyBodyAccJerkMag_mean"   : numeric, mean;        
[44] "fBodyBodyAccJerkMag_meanFreq"  : numeric, mean;     
[45] "fBodyBodyGyroMag_mean"       : numeric, mean;       
[46] "fBodyBodyGyroMag_meanFreq"   : numeric, mean;       
[47] "fBodyBodyGyroJerkMag_mean"    : numeric, mean;      
[48] "fBodyBodyGyroJerkMag_meanFreq"  : numeric, mean;    
[49] "angle_tBodyAccMeangravity_"   : numeric, mean;      
[50] "angle_tBodyAccJerkMean_gravityMean_": numeric, mean;
[51] "angle_tBodyGyroMeangravityMean_"    : numeric, mean;
[52] "angle_tBodyGyroJerkMeangravityMean_": numeric, mean;
[53] "angle_XgravityMean_"      : numeric, mean;          
[54] "angle_YgravityMean_"    : numeric, mean;            
[55] "angle_ZgravityMean_"       : numeric, mean;         
[56] "tBodyAcc_std_X"   : numeric, mean of the standard deviation;                  
[57] "tBodyAcc_std_Y"   : numeric, mean of the standard deviation;                  
[58] "tBodyAcc_std_Z"   : numeric, mean of the standard deviation;                  
[59] "tGravityAcc_std_X"   : numeric, mean of the standard deviation;               
[60] "tGravityAcc_std_Y"    : numeric, mean of the standard deviation;              
[61] "tGravityAcc_std_Z"    : numeric, mean of the standard deviation;              
[62] "tBodyAccJerk_std_X"   : numeric, mean of the standard deviation;              
[63] "tBodyAccJerk_std_Y"    : numeric, mean of the standard deviation;             
[64] "tBodyAccJerk_std_Z"    : numeric, mean of the standard deviation;             
[65] "tBodyGyro_std_X"      : numeric, mean of the standard deviation;              
[66] "tBodyGyro_std_Y"      : numeric, mean of the standard deviation;              
[67] "tBodyGyro_std_Z"       : numeric, mean of the standard deviation;             
[68] "tBodyGyroJerk_std_X"    : numeric, mean of the standard deviation;            
[69] "tBodyGyroJerk_std_Y"   : numeric, mean of the standard deviation;             
[70] "tBodyGyroJerk_std_Z"    : numeric, mean of the standard deviation;            
[71] "tBodyAccMag_std"        : numeric, mean of the standard deviation;            
[72] "tGravityAccMag_std"      : numeric, mean of the standard deviation;           
[73] "tBodyAccJerkMag_std"     : numeric, mean of the standard deviation;           
[74] "tBodyGyroMag_std"        : numeric, mean of the standard deviation;           
[75] "tBodyGyroJerkMag_std"    : numeric, mean of the standard deviation;           
[76] "fBodyAcc_std_X"          : numeric, mean of the standard deviation;           
[77] "fBodyAcc_std_Y"          : numeric, mean of the standard deviation;           
[78] "fBodyAcc_std_Z"           : numeric, mean of the standard deviation;          
[79] "fBodyAccJerk_std_X"       : numeric, mean of the standard deviation;          
[80] "fBodyAccJerk_std_Y"      : numeric, mean of the standard deviation;           
[81] "fBodyAccJerk_std_Z"       : numeric, mean of the standard deviation;          
[82] "fBodyGyro_std_X"          : numeric, mean of the standard deviation;          
[83] "fBodyGyro_std_Y"           : numeric, mean of the standard deviation;         
[84] "fBodyGyro_std_Z"            : numeric, mean of the standard deviation;        
[85] "fBodyAccMag_std"            : numeric, mean of the standard deviation;        
[86] "fBodyBodyAccJerkMag_std"    : numeric, mean of the standard deviation;        
[87] "fBodyBodyGyroMag_std"        : numeric, mean of the standard deviation;       
[88] "fBodyBodyGyroJerkMag_std"   : numeric, mean of the standard deviation.


## Reference for the original dataset:
Davide Anguita, Alessandro Ghio, Luca Oneto, Xavier Parra and Jorge L. Reyes-Ortiz. Human Activity Recognition on Smartphones using a Multiclass Hardware-Friendly Support Vector Machine. International Workshop of Ambient Assisted Living (IWAAL 2012). Vitoria-Gasteiz, Spain. Dec 2012
This dataset is distributed AS-IS and no responsibility implied or explicit can be addressed to the authors or their institutions for its use or misuse. Any commercial use is prohibited.
Jorge L. Reyes-Ortiz, Alessandro Ghio, Luca Oneto, Davide Anguita. November 2012.
